# Java-SE-8-Developer-Bootcamp-1Z0-808-Preparation
This project is made to help me pass the JAVA SE 8 Level 1 exam
**Java SE 8 Programmer I Exam**

This page maps sections in the Java Tutorials to topics covered in the Java SE 8
Programmer I exam. This exam is associated with the Oracle Certified Associate,
Java SE 8 Programmer certificate. The topics covered in this exam are:

1.  [Java
    Basics](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/certification/javase-8-programmer1.html#basics)

2.  [Working with Java Data
    Types](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/certification/javase-8-programmer1.html#dataTypes)

3.  [Using Operators and Decision
    Constructs](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/certification/javase-8-programmer1.html#operators)

4.  [Creating and Using
    Arrays](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/certification/javase-8-programmer1.html#arrays)

5.  [Using Loop
    Constructs](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/certification/javase-8-programmer1.html#loopConstructs)

6.  [Working with Methods and
    Encapsulation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/certification/javase-8-programmer1.html#encapsulation)

7.  [Working with
    Inheritance](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/certification/javase-8-programmer1.html#inheritance)

8.  [Handling
    Exceptions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/certification/javase-8-programmer1.html#exceptions)

9.  [Working with Selected classes from the Java
    API](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/extra/certification/javase-8-programmer1.html#api)

**Section 1: Java Basics**

**Item 1:** Define the scope of variables.

-   [Variables](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/variables.html)

**Item 2:** Define the structure of a Java class.

-   [A Closer Look at the "Hello World!"
    Application](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/getStarted/application/index.html)

-   [Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/classes.html)

**Item 3:** Create executable Java applications with a main method; run a Java
program from the command line; produce console output.

-   ["Hello World!" for the NetBeans
    IDE](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/getStarted/cupojava/netbeans.html)

-   ["Hello World!" for Microsoft
    Windows](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/getStarted/cupojava/win32.html)

-   ["Hello World!" for Solaris OS and
    Linux](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/getStarted/cupojava/unix.html)

-   [A Closer Look at the "Hello World!"
    Application](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/getStarted/application/index.html)

**Item 4:** Import other Java packages to make them accessible in your code.

-   [Creating and Using
    Packages](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/package/packages.html)

-   [Using Package
    Members](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/package/usepkgs.html)

**Item 5:** Compare and contrast the features and components of Java such as:
platform independence, object orientation, encapsulation, etc.

-   [About the Java
    Technology](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/getStarted/intro/definition.html)

-   [Object-Oriented Programming
    Concepts](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/index.html)

**Section 2: Working with Java Data Types**

**Item 1:** Declare and initialize variables (including casting of primitive
data types).

-   [Variables](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/variables.html)

-   [Initializing
    Fields](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/initial.html)

**Item 2:** Differentiate between object reference variables and primitive
variables.

-   [Primitive Data
    Types](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/datatypes.html)

-   [The Numbers
    Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/numberclasses.html)

**Item 3:** Know how to read or write to object fields.

-   [Inheritance](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/subclasses.html)

-   [Declaring Member
    Variables](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/variables.html)

-   [Creating
    Objects](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/objectcreation.html)

-   [Using
    Objects](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/usingobject.html)

**Item 4:** Explain an object's lifecycle (creation, "dereference by
reassignment" and garbage collection).

-   [Objects](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/objects.html)

-   [Creating
    Objects](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/objectcreation.html)

-   [Using
    Objects](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/usingobject.html)

**Section 3: Using Operators and Decision Constructs**

**Item 1:** Use Java operators; use parentheses to override operator precedence.

-   [Operators](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/operators.html)

-   [Assignment, Arithmetic, and Unary
    Operators](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/op1.html)

-   [Equality, Relational, and Conditional
    Operators](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/op2.html)

-   [Bitwise and Bit Shift
    Operators](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/op3.html)

-   [Expressions, Statements, and
    Blocks](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/expressions.html)

**Item 2:** Test equality between strings and other objects
using == and equals().

-   [Object as a
    Superclass](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/objectclass.html)

**Item 3:** Create and use if, if-else, and ternary constructs.

-   [The if-then and if-then-else
    Statements](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/if.html)

-   [Equality, Relational, and Conditional
    Operators](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/op2.html)

**Item 4:** Use a switch statement.

-   [The switch
    Statement](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/switch.html)

**Section 4: Creating and Using Arrays**

**Item 1:** Declare, instantiate, initialize and use a one-dimensional array.

-   [Arrays](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/arrays.html)

**Item 2:** Declare, instantiate, initialize and use a multi-dimensional array.

-   [Arrays](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/arrays.html)

**Section 5: Using Loop Constructs**

**Item 1:** Create and use while loops.

-   [The while and do-while
    Statements](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/while.html)

**Item 2:** Create and use for loops including the enhanced for loop.

-   [The for
    Statement](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/for.html)

**Item 3:** Create and use do-while loops.

-   [The while and do-while
    Statements](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/while.html)

**Item 4:** Compare loop constructs.

-   [Summary of Control Flow
    Statements](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/flowsummary.html)

**Item 5:** Use break and continue.

-   [Branching
    Statements](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/branch.html)

**Section 6: Working with Methods and Encapsulation**

**Item 1:** Create methods with arguments and return values, including
overloaded methods.

-   [Returning a Value from a
    Method](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/returnvalue.html)

-   [Defining
    Methods](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/methods.html)

**Item 2:** Apply the static keyword to methods and fields.

-   [Variables](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/variables.html)

-   [Understanding Class
    Members](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/classvars.html)

-   [Default
    Methods](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/defaultmethods.html)

**Item 3:** Create an overloaded method; differentiate between default and user
defined constructors.

-   [Defining
    Methods](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/methods.html)

-   [Providing Constructors for Your
    Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/constructors.html)

**Item 4:** Apply access modifiers.

-   [Controlling Access to Members of a
    Class](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/accesscontrol.html)

**Item 5:** Apply encapsulation principles to a class.

-   [Inheritance](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/subclasses.html)

-   [Inner Class
    Example](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/innerclasses.html)

-   [Nested
    Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/nested.html)

**Item 6:** Determine the effect upon object references and primitive values
when they are passed into methods that change the values.

-   [Passing Information to a Method or a
    Constructor](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/arguments.html)

**Section 7: Working with Inheritance**

**Item 1:** Describe inheritance and its benefits.

-   [Inheritance](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/subclasses.html)

-   [Overriding and Hiding
    Methods](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/override.html)

**Item 2:** Develop code that makes use of polymorphism; develop code that
overrides methods; differentiate between the type of a reference and the type of
an object.

-   [Polymorphism](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/polymorphism.html)

-   [Creating
    Objects](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/objectcreation.html)

-   [Using
    Objects](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/usingobject.html)

**Item 3:** Determine when casting is necessary.

-   [Inheritance](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/subclasses.html)

**Item 4:** Use super and this to access objects and constructors.

-   [Using the Keyword
    super](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/super.html)

-   [Using the this
    Keyword](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/thiskey.html)

**Item 5:** Use abstract classes and interfaces.

-   [Abstract Methods and
    Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/abstract.html)

-   [Defining an
    Interface](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/interfaceDef.html)

-   [Implementing an
    Interface](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/usinginterface.html)

**Section 8: Handling Exceptions**

**Item 1:** Differentiate among checked exceptions, RuntimeException, and Error.

-   [The Catch or Specify
    Requirement](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/catchOrDeclare.html)

**Item 2:** Create a try-catch block and determine how exceptions alter normal
program flow.

-   [Catching and Handling
    Exceptions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/handling.html)

-   [The try
    Block](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/try.html)

-   [The catch
    Blocks](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/catch.html)

**Item 3:** Describe the advantages of exception handling .

-   [What Is an
    Exception?](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/definition.html)

-   [Advantages of
    Exceptions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/advantages.html)

**Item 4:** Create and invoke a method that throws an exception.

-   [Catching
    Exceptions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/io/fileOps.html#exception)

**Item 5:** Recognize common exception classes and categories (such as
NullPointerException, ArithmeticException, ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException,
ClassCastException).

**Section 9: Working with Selected classes from the Java API**

**Item 1:** Manipulate data using the StringBuilder class and its methods.

-   [The StringBuilder
    Class](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/buffers.html)

-   [Summary of Characters and
    Strings](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/stringsummary.html)

**Item 2:** Create and manipulate strings.

-   [Strings](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/strings.html)

-   [Converting Between Numbers and
    Strings](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/converting.html)

-   [Comparing Strings and Portions of
    Strings](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/comparestrings.html)

-   [Manipulating Characters in a
    String](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/manipstrings.html)

**Item 3:** Create and manipulate calendar data using classes
from java.time.LocalDateTime, java.time.LocalDate, java.time.LocalTime, java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter, java.time.Period.

-   [Date and Time
    Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/datetime/iso/datetime.html)

-   [Date
    Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/datetime/iso/date.html)

-   [Parsing and
    Formatting](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/datetime/iso/format.html)

-   [Period and
    Duration](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/datetime/iso/period.html)

**Item 4:** Declare and use an ArrayList of a given type.

-   [The List
    Interface](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/interfaces/list.html)

-   [List
    Implementations](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/implementations/list.html)

**Item 5:** Write a simple Lambda expression that consumes a Lambda Predicate
expression.

-   [Lambda
    Expressions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/lambdaexpressions.html)

-   [Aggregate
    Operations](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/streams/index.html)
